README.rst, before:

style
=====

|Build Status| |PyPI version|

**style** is a simple terminal string styling library. Its API is a port of the popular
`chalk <https://github.com/chalk/chalk>`__ module for javascript.


Install
-------

::

    $ pip install style


Usage
-----

.. code:: py

    import style

    print(style.red.bold('Hello world!'))


API
---

style.\ ``style*[.style](*objects, sep=' ')``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Chain `styles <#styles>`__ and call the last one as a method with an argument. Order doesn't matter, and later styles
take precedence in case of a conflict, e.g. ``style.red.yellow.green`` is equivalent to ``style.green``.

Multiple arguments will be separated by ``sep``, a space by default.

style.\ ``enabled``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Color support is automatically detected, but can also be changed manually.

- set ``style.enabled`` to ``True`` or ``False``
- use the command line parameter ``--color`` or ``--no-color``


Styles
------

+---------------------+-------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Modifiers           | Colors                              | Background colors                         |
+=====================+===============+=====================+==================+========================+
| - ``bold``          | - ``black``   | - ``light_black``   | - ``on_black``   | - ``on_light_black``   |
| - ``dim``           | - ``red``     | - ``light_red``     | - ``on_red``     | - ``on_light_red``     |
| - ``italic``        | - ``green``   | - ``light_green``   | - ``on_green``   | - ``on_light_green``   |
| - ``underline``     | - ``yellow``  | - ``light_yellow``  | - ``on_yellow``  | - ``on_light_yellow``  |
| - ``inverse``       | - ``blue``    | - ``light_blue``    | - ``on_blue``    | - ``on_light_blue``    |
| - ``hidden``        | - ``magenta`` | - ``light_magenta`` | - ``on_magenta`` | - ``on_light_magenta`` |
| - ``strikethrough`` | - ``cyan``    | - ``light_cyan``    | - ``on_cyan``    | - ``on_light_cyan``    |
|                     | - ``white``   | - ``light_white``   | - ``on_white``   | - ``on_light_white``   |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------------------+------------------------+


.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/lmittmann/style.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/lmittmann/style
.. |PyPI version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/style.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/style

Commit message:

added functionality to nest styles
* style_builder splitted up in styled_string_builder and styled_string
* updated doc to include nesting
* bumped version 1.0.4 to 1.1.0

README.rst, after:

style
=====

|Build Status| |PyPI version|

**style** is a simple terminal string styling library. Its API is a port of the popular
`chalk <https://github.com/chalk/chalk>`__ module for javascript.


Install
-------

::

    $ pip install style


Usage
-----

.. code:: py

    import style

    print(style.red('Hello', style.bold('world') + '!'))


API
---

style.\ ``style*[.style](*objects, sep=' ')``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Chain `styles <#styles>`__ and call the last one as a method with an argument. Order doesn't matter, and later styles
take precedence in case of a conflict, e.g. ``style.red.yellow.green`` is equivalent to ``style.green``. Styles can
be nested.

Multiple arguments will be separated by ``sep``, a space by default.

style.\ ``enabled``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Color support is automatically detected, but can also be changed manually.

- set ``style.enabled`` to ``True`` or ``False``
- use the command line parameter ``--color`` or ``--no-color``


Styles
------

+---------------------+-------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Modifiers           | Colors                              | Background colors                         |
+=====================+===============+=====================+==================+========================+
| - ``bold``          | - ``black``   | - ``light_black``   | - ``on_black``   | - ``on_light_black``   |
| - ``dim``           | - ``red``     | - ``light_red``     | - ``on_red``     | - ``on_light_red``     |
| - ``italic``        | - ``green``   | - ``light_green``   | - ``on_green``   | - ``on_light_green``   |
| - ``underline``     | - ``yellow``  | - ``light_yellow``  | - ``on_yellow``  | - ``on_light_yellow``  |
| - ``inverse``       | - ``blue``    | - ``light_blue``    | - ``on_blue``    | - ``on_light_blue``    |
| - ``hidden``        | - ``magenta`` | - ``light_magenta`` | - ``on_magenta`` | - ``on_light_magenta`` |
| - ``strikethrough`` | - ``cyan``    | - ``light_cyan``    | - ``on_cyan``    | - ``on_light_cyan``    |
|                     | - ``white``   | - ``light_white``   | - ``on_white``   | - ``on_light_white``   |
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------------------+------------------------+


.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/lmittmann/style.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/lmittmann/style
.. |PyPI version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/style.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/style
